---
layout: post
title:  "#metoo exhuasted"
date:   2018-10-09 00:00:00
category: general
---
Sexual assault and harassment are touchy topics, obviously. Consent is a touchy topic. Not only because sex is still taboo in 2018, but because the words aren’t clearly defined. What does “consent” mean, what does “harassment” mean? While some experts define these clinically, the real world, practical meaning is unclear. If you asked an average man, I am sure they would have a hard time defining words like “consent” and “harassment,” no matter where they stood on a political spectrum. And many would admit to never seeing those types of behavior in their life times. Yet, if you asked a woman what those words mean, they are more likely to have a clear definition and understanding of them, due to the fact most of them have or know someone who has, had an experience with sexual assault and harassment. 

So how do we find some common ground? 

Perspective is everything, and we live in a world where most women see these behaviors at some point in their lives, while men are naively unaware of how prevalent harassment and abuse are, because they don’t see it. And to those mens credit, its because they aren’t the ones doing the abusive act. So we have almost 100% of women that have experienced something, so perceive it appropriately as real and dangerous. And some percentage of men that have never seen harassment or assault first hand, so they hear these stories as unbelievable events. It is my opinion that woman take some responsibility for this. They have [protected men](https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/style/dear-dads-your-daughters-told-me-about-their-assaults-this-is-why-they-never-told-you/2018/10/01/0f69be46-c587-11e8-b2b5-79270f9cce17_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.893d9a119225) from their realities for thousands of years. 

As a woman, its true, I don’t know one other woman who has not been harassed or assaulted at some point in their life. If you are a woman you wouldn’t second guess my last statement, if you are a man, you may be thinking “really 100% of the women you know.” But yes, it is 100% of the women I know have been harassed or assaulted, or know someone who has, based on how Webster defines sexual harassment “uninvited and unwelcome verbal or physical behavior of a sexual nature especially by a person in authority toward a subordinate.” Or how they define rape, “illegal sexual contact that usually involves force upon a person without consent or is inflicted upon a person who is incapable of giving consent (as because of age or physical or mental incapacity) or who places the assailant (such as a doctor) in a position of trust or authority.” In that case, my 100% of women I know statement stands. But what does that mean in real life?

Lets walk through some examples that aren’t political, they are real life stories that highlight the gray space in this matter.  I had a coworker go on a business trip with her boss. She’s a pretty conservative woman, and presents herself as such. She’s my “j.crew friend” (which says it all for me). Days before leaving for the trip, she learned she was pregnant for the first time, which just made the trip more challenging; leaving the country with your boss, newly pregnant and not ready to tell him. Just shitty all around, as any woman whose been pregnant would attest. 

Once they get to the hotel, the boss wanted her to go drink with him, and she says she’s got work to do so she can’t. But she knew she had to do dinner with him and the clients so she said she would meet him in the lobby before dinner. When she met him, he had had a few beers already and was chatting with people at the bar. He insisted she drink, which she couldn’t, and he wouldn’t let it go. This became a theme of the night, even in front of clients. 

After the clients left the boss started telling this woman, his employee, who has not even consumed one alcoholic beverage, about how him and the man at the hotel lobby were talking about a time he hired a male prostitute. He went into details about how he would cover his anus with cocaine to decrease the pain of whatever events were about to occur. He talked about how he has sex with his wife when she is asleep because thats the only way to get laid. He had lots of sexual stories, that were pretty disturbing, especially to this particular person. 

Now, for me, I know more than you do about this situation; I worked with these people and to be honest, the dude had told me the whole “fucking his wife after she’s asleep” story months prior. So when my co-worker told me these stories, I knew she was being honest. It wasn’t a stretch, I had pegged this guy as a total creep from the minute they hired him. The guy had pegged me as someone who wasn’t uptight so he often said the stupidest and most disturbing shit around me. I never formally reported him, but kept upper management aware of his shortcomings as a manager.

But without the background knowledge I had, this is ultimately a story about a boss telling his employee, inappropriate stories about his sex life. Is this harassment? I can tell you she was thoroughly disgusted and uncomfortable. And that never went away as long as they worked together. She didn’t report it because she was pregnant and didn’t want to rock the ship before maternity leave. She was worried about how it would impact her reputation at the organization. And again, she was newly pregnant and exhausted from it all. She avoided him as much as possible and coped.

At the same time, I had been told one of the stories and I was disgusted and uncomfortable too but was somewhat unfazed. Granted I was in an office with a hundred other people so I wasn’t in fear for my safety when he told me, and I do not think he was under the influence at the time, I just felt disgusted and judged him as a total creep. She was stuck with him at a restaurant, in another country, and feared for what was to come in the taxi ride home and getting into her hotel room. For the record, nothing happened beyond the unprofessional stories and an unwillingness to leave the restaurant until he wanted to since he had the company credit card. 

So had this employee come out and accused this man of harassment is she wrong? Should a woman be subjected to that behavior without consequence? Should a man? If a man walked up to a woman he didn’t know and told those stories, would that then be harassment too? Or not because there isn’t the boss/employee dynamic? Was it harassment for her because this woman was a direct report, while I was just a colleague? Or is it harassment because she was offended, but since I was less so it wasn’t harassment? Should he get fired? Should the employer tell potential future employers that he harasses women? Should the woman be cast as an accuser or as too sensitive? I feel like I alone could articulate an argument for all sides of all the answers to all of these questions, because it just takes putting yourself in each perspective.

So here is another story. A woman goes to the bar with friends, has a few beers, starts hanging out with a guy, next thing she wakes up at his house with evidence that she had sex with him. She is pretty sure he slipped her something, but she knows its possible she overdid it and drank too much. So when she tells me the story, I am like “uh isn’t that kind of like being date raped?” to which she responded “well its my fault, I shouldn’t have drank so much.” Is she right? Do we live in a world where if you drink too much you are giving consent to any taker? Is there a number of beers or amount of drugs that changes the consent requirements?

I don’t say this sarcastically; I am genuinely curious because this is complicated shit. As a mother to a son and a daughter, I fear for both sides of the equation. We don’t want to live in a world where a majority of those I know who are female have been assaulted to some degree, but I also don’t want to live in a world where my son’s life can be ruined with one false accusation. Another concerning thing about our current times is that while the #metoo movement happens, people are still refusing to openly talk about sex with less taboo. The more we accept sexual desire, and weird ones at that, as a reality, we will have inappropriate behaviors as outlets to these limits.

So maybe this is our common ground; as a society we gotta let go of our uptight sexual assumptions. Maybe legalizing prostitution would provide an outlet to these guys who obviously get off on some fucked up shit, or just want an easy lay. But is that our business? In my opinion it is, once it impacts an non-consenting adult or a minor, otherwise, weird it away peeps. I don’t give a shit. But we have a government, in fact we are about to have one of the most conservative Supreme Courts in our history, that will be anti-sex, anti-birth control, anti-sexual education, etc. And as a result, we will lose a generation of progress in this conversation about consent and protection that protects boys and girls.

We need to progress through this conversation by defining these terms together; man and woman. We need to be open to the fact that questioning an accuser doesn’t make you a victim blamer, and that being accused doesn’t make you guilty. But more importantly both sides have to realize that a generalization like “all women deal with men being perves” doesn’t mean men should get defensive and see it as an attack on them; just be a good person and don’t violate others and you aren’t the problem. #metoo isn’t coming after men, its coming after abusers. But we all have to be honest, that the majority of abusers are men, and a majority of accusers are being honest (the highest estimate of false accusations I have seen is up to 8%). Not to mention, if an accuser is lying, the accused suffers some temporary consequence of investigation. If the accused is lying, they ruined another persons life consequence free?

Lets break down the wall, and be honest with each other without defensive posture. Women need to be honest about their experiences, and be open, so that when a man hears these things he isn’t shocked. We need to desensitize them as much as we are. And I do think that is naturally happening, especially among younger men. I know I recently told my husband after 13 years about my personal experience with sexual assault. He knows EVERYTHING about me, but it took 13 years to go there. 

But for women to be honest, and open, we have to provide them a safe space. And as long as men are defensive and see this as an assault on them, we can’t feel safe. If a man isn’t an abuser, then listen. Don’t act as if this is shocking, be honest about the statistics and again, listen. Don’t be defensive and think women see you as the abuser, join them in their fight against the abuser. 

Be part of the solution, we beg you to. if you are a man, ask the women in your life about their experiences. If you are a man in a powerful position, hire more women, promote them, pay them equally, listen to them, let them be heard and let them be honest. If you are a woman, be honest, be open, and be sensitive to men’s perspective. Yes, I know that is going to get me on the shit list with some feminist, but there are many men who genuinely don’t understand how this can be real. We have to help them understand the reality without just saying the are “victim blaming” and getting pissed and defensive because we see this shit everyday. They don’t live in that bubble of reality.

Real progress happens by being progressive, in thought. Which requires resetting expectations when new information is given and being open minded about ways to move forward. That any small step is a step forward. We need to be progressive because many women have had traumatic life events that could have been prevented by the power of social pressure and awareness alone. You add in dialogue, support structures and emotional support, and we can really end this epidemic and maybe make it the exception and not the rule. 



